# YOLOv1 Example

In this example, we demonstrate how STADLE can facilitate the learning of a global model capable of identifying examples from multiple data subsets without data centralization.  We have three datasets, each with images containing one instance of 'meat', one of 'fish' and one of 'vegetable' - however, the actual vegetable identified with the label is different for each dataset.  Specifically, each dataset contains exactly one of tomatoes/eggplants/leeks(negi) as the object labeled with 'vegetable'.  We will demonstate how, while the model only trained on one dataset fails to detect the other vegetable instances as 'vegetable', running a training process for each dataset and using STADLE to aggregate the models produces a model that can idenfity all vegetable instances in an image correctly.

## Environment Setup

The training and validation data can be downloaded from [this Google Drive link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UlzFjJXEtpG0anO75HFbZFAof1rIQM9L/view?usp=sharing); unzip `yolo_example_dataset.zip` and move the inner `dataset` folder inside the `yolo_example` folder (same level as this README).

The following pip packages will need to be installed:
 - `stadle-client` (connect to and use STADLE)
 - `torch` (PyTorch)
 - `ultralytics` (YOLO model and utilities)
Running the command `pip install -r requirements.txt` within this directory will install these three dependencies.

## STADLE Setup

Go to STADLE Ops and create a new project, then start an aggregator.  Once the aggregator has been created and its LB address is visible on the dashboard, copy the address and paste it as the value for `aggr_ip` within the `client_config.json` STADLE config file.

We can now upload the YOLOv11 model information to STADLE to prepare for training; to do this, run the following command from within the `yolo_example` folder:

    ```bash
    stadle upload-model --config_path client_config.json
    ```

Depending on where the aggregator was deployed (locally vs provisioning resources on cloud), it may take a couple of minutes for the aggregator to be ready - this model upload will wait for the aggregator address to be active before attempting to send the model.

## STADLE Training

To start a single training process (STADLE agent), run the following command:

    ```bash
    python yolo_fl_agent.py --dataset <eggplant/tomato/negi>
    ```

Accepted arguments:

- `--dataset`: One of `eggplant/negi/tomato`; specifies which dataset the agent should use for local training
- `--num_rounds`: Integer >= 1; number of rounds the agent should participate in.  Defaults to 20.
- `--num_epochs`: Integer >= 1; number of local training epochs per round.  Defaults to 25.
- `--device`: Either `cpu`, `cuda` (Nvidia GPU), `mps` (Apple Silicon), or an integer/list of integers corresponding to the device numbers of the GPU(s) to be used; specifies device(s) to run YOLO with.  If not provided, will default to `cpu`.
- `--agent_name`: Identifying name of agent, should be unique for each agent.  Defaults to `{eggplant/tomato/negi}_yolo_agent` based on dataset used.

As training occurs, multiple metrics will appear in the `Performance Tracking` page in STADLE Ops.  Metrics prepended with `train/val` correspond to the values from the training and validation dataset, respectively.  The validation metric values assocciated with the aggregator are computed as the average validation metric value of the semi-global model on each agent's validation dataset.

When computing metrics such as precision and recall, an IoU (intersection over union) threshold of 50% is used; similarly, `mAP50` (mean average precision) uses an IoU threshold of 50% while `mAP50-95` uses a range of thresholds from 50% to 95% (more difficult evaluation).

To evaluate the performance of aggregation with STADLE, run three training processes in parallel (with each using a different dataset).  Alternatively, the single model (no aggregation) approach can be evaluated by only run a single training process with one dataset.

To silence the outputs generated by YOLO, set the environment variable `YOLO_VERBOSE=False`.

## Run Detection with Model

Once all of the agents have finished running, you can go to the `Model Repo` page in STADLE Ops to see all of the models created in the process.  To evaulate any model, click on the corresponding row and download the model file.  Extract the `.pt` file into the `yolo_example` folder, then rename it to `val_model.pt`.  You can then run the following command to test the model on the `all_veg_test.png` image:

    ```bash
    python validate_model.py
    ```

The resulting image with object detections applied will saved as `all_veg_detections.png`.